adding dss deployment on EC2 (#302)
canonical/ubuntu-cloud-docs: aws/aws-how-to/instances/data-science-stack-on-ec2.rst

> Canonical Data Science Stack on EC2 using a GPU-enabled instance type

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deploy Canonical Data Science Stack on EC2 using a GPU-enabled instance type
```

=======================================================================

> Canonical Data Science Stack is a command line interface-based tool that bundles Jupyter Notebooks, MLflow and frameworks like PyTorch and TensorFlow on top of an orchestration layer, making this product excellent for rapid testing, prototyping and doing ML at a small scale. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Canonical Data Science Stack (DSS) is a command line interface-based tool that bundles Jupyter Notebooks, MLflow and frameworks like PyTorch and TensorFlow on top of an orchestration layer, making this product excellent for rapid testing, prototyping and doing ML at a small scale. 
```

While this is a product intended for desktop machine learning users, you can also deploy it on EC2 following these instructions.

We are using a G4DN instance type to leverage the GPU, required for machine learning training and inference.

Learn more about Canonical Data Science Stack in our `press release post`_.

Launch a GPU-EC2 instance (G4DN instance family)
------------------------------------------------

> Navigate to the EC2 Web console, select Launch Instance and make sure you select either Ubuntu 22.04 or 24.04 LTS (free or Pro), and any G4DN instance type family.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Navigate to the EC2 Web console, select :guilabel:`Launch instance` and make sure you select either Ubuntu 22.04 or 24.04 LTS (free or Pro), and any G4DN instance type family.
```

> For this example, we are using 22.04 on ``g4dn.xlarge``, which has 4 vCPUs and 16 GiB of RAM. It is powered with an NVIDIA T4 GPU.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this example, we are using 22.04 on ``g4dn.xlarge``, which has 4 vCPUs and 16 GB of RAM. It is powered with an NVIDIA T4 GPU.
```

Make a note of the machine IP and the Key-Pair used. You’ll need it for connecting to the machine.

> Log in and install GPU drivers

Reviewer 2: should we reference the DSS docs here too?

Author: agreed

        +-----------------------------------------+----------------------+----------------------+

        +---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
        | Processes:                                                                            |
        |  GPU   GI   CI        PID   Type   Process name                            GPU Memory |
        |        ID   ID                                                             Usage      |
        |=======================================================================================|
        |  No running processes found                                                           |
        +---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

Note that the GPU is properly detected and CUDA has also been installed.

Install MicroK8s and DSS
------------------------

Install MicroK8s:

.. code::

    sudo snap install microk8s --channel 1.28/stable --classic
    sudo microk8s enable storage dns rbac
    sudo microk8s enable gpu

Install DSS:

.. code::

    sudo snap install data-science-stack --channel latest/stable

>     dss initialize --kubeconfig="$(sudo microk8s config)"

Reviewer 2: i would prefer to reference the official DSS docs for this

Author: TLDR; I'll leave that to @k-dimple 
In a conversation with another team (Anbox), we were discussing how referencing other guides sometimes impacted the experience, as a 1/the official guides tend to be more generic and sometimes confuse the customer with other things, and 2/ the How-to stops to be a straightforward recipe. 

The documentation person there told me that they are trying now to have self-sufficient guides for that reason.

Reviewer: Yeah, I agree with the argument. If the whole how-to guide was just about installing DSS, we could have directly pointed to the DSS docs. Here since we are talking about specific EC2 instances and including specific drivers, it is better to give a complete set of instructions and to point them to the DSS docs for further reference. (Carlos has already done this by adding a link in the introduction section.) So I think we can keep it in its current state.

Create your first Jupyter Notebook:

.. code::

    dss create my-tensorflow-notebook --image=kubeflownotebookswg/jupyter-tensorflow-cuda:v1.8.0

> DSS will deploy Jupyter Notebooks with Tensorflow and with CUDA enabled. It’ll use a ``clusterIP`` from the MicroK8s cluster, which will only be accessible from inside the machine for the moment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DSS will deploy Jupyter Notebooks with TensorFlow and with CUDA enabled. It’ll use a ``clusterIP`` from the MicroK8s cluster, which will only be accessible from inside the machine for the moment.
```

> To allow outside access, change the deployment to use a ``Nodeport`` instead of a ``clusterIP`` and reconnect using a SSH tunnel:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To allow outside access, change the deployment to use a ``Nodeport`` instead of a ``clusterIP`` and reconnect using an SSH tunnel:
```

.. code::

    sudo microk8s kubectl patch svc my-tensorflow-notebook --type='json' -p '[{"op":"replace","path":"/spec/type","value":"NodePort"}]' --namespace dss

Wait some seconds and it will get updated.

Create an SSH tunnel for accessing the deployment
--------------------------------------------------

Open a new connection to create the tunnel to the deployment port. You can close the previous connection as it won’t be used anymore.

.. code::

    ssh -i <<YOUR_KEYPAIR>> ubuntu@<<YOUR_MACHINE_IP>> -L 30633:localhost:30633

Open your browser with the address ``localhost:30633`` and start using your freshly deployed Jupyter Notebook with CUDA enabled.

.. note::

>     Note: If you want to create more Jupyter Notebook deployments, you will need to create additional tunnels for the new ports too.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If you want to create more Jupyter Notebook deployments, you'll have to create additional tunnels on new ports.
```
